Hong Shon reflections (Week of Oct 7~Oct 11)


1.

Over the last weekend, each vertical group executed a data analysis and reproduction project. For it has been hectic midterm period foe everybody, our group members decided to resort to emails, facebook group/chat for contacting each other. However, these methods were found to be quite ineffective as opposed to what was expected. As far as the email goes, members checked their mailboxes on an irregular basis; that is, mailbox was not as readily accessble as it was supposed to be. Anyone (not a specific member but arbitrarily,) would not be responding for hours, leaving others waiting for him. A backup contact method, facebook, was not as effective either; maybe for it was midterm period, people would not come to facebook as often as it was expected. So, it was quite challenging that we faced difficulties contacting each other. For next time, we agreed on that we should meet up for at least once or twice to better track what each other is doing in terms of the progress of the project.

Professor also pointed that it was an important problem to be addressed when working in a team environment. All of us should look for ways to better keep in touch with each other.


2.

The main purpose of this team project was not in its quality of analysis, but rather its reproducibility, hence representing our course - reproducible data science. 

In our case, our curator used different method when cleaning up the data, so he concluded that it was impossible for him to reproduce the steps as accurately as he did.

This is where we thought that we should better keep in check of each other. If we had discussed beforehand as a group rather than leaving the job to the curator.

Other than that, as far as the coding goes, it was written very well; by just dragging the whole code and running, the data will be reproduced beautifully.



3. 

This was my first time to use HTML5 for presentation. I was surprised how easy it was to make with supporting websites such as slid.es. Compared to MS powerpoint it lacked many features, but as far as "presenting the information" goes, it was very accessible and easily reproducible in any platform of operating system. It would be worth it to learn more of HTML 5 language myself rather thank relying on sites such as slid.es!
